source/blog/2017-01-22-meeting-luca-by-marion.html.markdown, before:

---
title: How I came to be in the Hanami Core Team
date: 2017-01-22 17:00 UTC
tags: announcements
author: Marion Schleifer
image: true
excerpt: >
  I am a Junior Developer and quite new in the Hanami core team. In this blog post, I want to tell you how I came to be there.
---

I’ve been wanting to contribute to open source for some time, but as I am a Junior Programmer, it was hard for me to find a project where I could contribute as a beginner. I tried answering easy questions on stackoverflow, but these are usually snatched away within minutes.

## How I Met Luca

I then went to RubyDay (http://www.rubyday.it/) in November 2016 to give a talk about learning to program using Ruby. I met Luca Guidi, the founder of Hanami, on the eve of the conference at the conference hotel. He gave me some very useful tips for my talk, as he was already experienced with conference talks. He also supported me the next morning before my talk. When the time of my talk arrived, he was sitting in the first row, listening closely. After the talk, he gave me great feedback, saying that he hoped that it is the first talk of many to come. I was very touched.

In the afternoon, I was at his talk about the lessons learned while building Hanami. I liked the talk a lot, because it was about the human side of open source programming. Luca talked about the importance of programmer’s happiness in open source and that the personal life should not be neglected. I learned a lot for my future career as a programmer and open source contributor. I went to congratulate him after his talk, but there was not a lot of time to speak longer.

## Joining Hanami

When I was back home, I got in touch with Luca over Twitter asking him if there was anything I could do for Hanami, because I like his attitude towards open source. We scheduled a call to talk in more detail and he asked me if I would like to join the Hanami core team. This was a big honor for me, so naturally, I said yes. Thereafter, I joined the subteam that is responsible for community work for Hanami and I’m having the best time doing it. We now have stickers that we will distribute at future conferences. And we have Hanami t-shirts that can be bought here: https://teespring.com/shop/hanamirb#pid=369&cid=6529&sid=front. There is a lot more work to do, and I am looking forward to it.

Commit message:

fix links and add link to current issues

source/blog/2017-01-22-meeting-luca-by-marion.html.markdown, after:

---
title: How I came to be in the Hanami Core Team
date: 2017-01-22 17:00 UTC
tags: announcements
author: Marion Schleifer
image: true
excerpt: >
  I am a Junior Developer and quite new in the Hanami core team. In this blog post, I want to tell you how I came to be there.
---

I’ve been wanting to contribute to open source for some time, but as I am a Junior Programmer, it was hard for me to find a project where I could contribute as a beginner. I tried answering easy questions on stackoverflow, but these are usually snatched away within minutes.

## How I Met Luca

I then went to [RubyDay](http://www.rubyday.it/) in November 2016 to give a talk about learning to program using Ruby. I met Luca Guidi, the founder of Hanami, on the eve of the conference at the conference hotel. He gave me some very useful tips for my talk, as he was already experienced with conference talks. He also supported me the next morning before my talk. When the time of my talk arrived, he was sitting in the first row, listening closely. After the talk, he gave me great feedback, saying that he hoped that it is the first talk of many to come. I was very touched.

In the afternoon, I was at his talk about the lessons learned while building Hanami. I liked the talk a lot, because it was about the human side of open source programming. Luca talked about the importance of programmer’s happiness in open source and that the personal life should not be neglected. I learned a lot for my future career as a programmer and open source contributor. I went to congratulate him after his talk, but there was not a lot of time to speak longer.

## Joining Hanami

When I was back home, I got in touch with Luca over Twitter asking him if there was anything I could do for Hanami, because I like his attitude towards open source. We scheduled a call to talk in more detail and he asked me if I would like to join the Hanami core team. This was a big honor for me, so naturally, I said yes. Thereafter, I joined the subteam that is responsible for community work for Hanami and I’m having the best time doing it. We now have stickers that we will distribute at future conferences. And we have Hanami t-shirts that can be bought [here.](https://teespring.com/shop/hanamirb#pid=369&cid=6529&sid=front) There is a lot more work to do, and I am looking forward to it.

If you are interested in helping Hanami with open source contribution, you find current issues [here.](https://github.com/hanami/hanami/issues)
