source/blog/2023-10-04-hanami-210beta2.html.markdown, before:

---
title: Hanami 2.1.0.beta2
date: 2023-10-04 07:24 UTC
tags: announcements
author: Tim Riley
image: true
excerpt: >
  Previewing front end assets for Hanami 2.1. New CLI command: `hanami dev`.
---

**Today we’re excited to release Hanami 2.1.0.beta2 and share a preview of Hanami’s front end assets experience.**

## `hanami dev`

It all starts with a new command: `hanami dev`.

Running `hanami dev` starts the familiar Hanami **web server** alongside our new front end **assets watcher** and compiler. This is based on **[esbuild](https://esbuild.github.io)**, and uses a [brand new plugin](https://github.com/hanami/assets-js) to make it aware of Hanami’s app structure.

Hanami assets management now requires a Node and NPM to work.

## App Structure for Assets

Your assets live in `app/assets/`. JavaScript files live under `js/` and serve as your main entry points. Here’s an example:

`app/assets/app.ts`

```ts
import "../css/app.css";

console.log("Hello from app.ts");
```

As you can see, [TypeScript](https://www.typescriptlang.org) support comes out of the box. Just run `npm install typescript --save-dev`.

With your initial assets files in place, you can hop over to your view layout to include them:

`app/views/layouts/app.html.erb`

```erb
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="en">
  <head>
    <meta charset="UTF-8">
    <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0">
    <title>Bookshelf</title>
    <%= favicon %>
    <%= css "app" %>
  </head>
  <body>
    <%= yield %>
    <%= js "app" %>
  </body>
</html>
```

And with that, you’re done! Your app is now serving your custom styles and JavaScript behavior.

## View Helpers for Assets

We provide a [complete range of helpers](https://github.com/hanami/hanami/blob/965aa5aeb25b0a16b9c519866f14b4fa916d290a/lib/hanami/helpers/assets_helper.rb#L1) for working with your assets in various ways, including `js`, `css` (or their wordier equivalents, `javascript`, `stylesheet`) `asset_url`, `image` and more.

For users of Hanami slices, we have you covered too: assets can live within each slice, in `slices/[slice_name]/assets` directories that can take the same structure as the app-level assets.

## CLI Commands

Along with the `hanami dev` command, you can also use the `hanami assets compile` and `hanami assets watch` commands directly.

If you’ve been waiting for the full stack Hanami experience, this beta release is a huge step forward.

Since our assets support is brand new, we need your help! We’d love you to give this a try with your favorite front end tools and packages, and [let us know how you go](https://discourse.hanamirb.org).

## What’s included?

Today we’re releasing the following gems:

- hanami v2.1.0.beta2
- hanami-reloader v2.1.0.beta2
- hanami-webconsole v2.1.0.beta2
- hanami-cli v2.1.0.beta2
- hanami-assets v2.1.0.beta2
- hanami-view v2.1.0.beta2
- hanami-controller v2.1.0.beta2
- hanami-assets v2.1.0-beta.2 (NPM Package)

For specific changes in this beta release, please see each gem’s own CHANGELOG.

## How can I try it?

```shell
> gem install foreman
> gem install hanami --pre
> hanami new my_app
> cd my_app
> bundle exec hanami dev
```

## What’s next for 2.1?

From here, we’ll be working through the small number of “Todo” items remaining on our [Hanami v2.1 project board](https://github.com/orgs/hanami/projects/2/views/1). These are mostly just polish and preparation tasks.

Depending on what we learn from your testing and feedback, this means **the full 2.1 release may only be a matter of weeks away!** We’ll also be focusing on getting our docs ready to go as well, and we’ll begin to release these as soon as they start to come together.

## Contributors

Thank you to these fine people for contributing to this release!

- [Luca Guidi](https://github.com/jodosha)
- [Tim Riley](https://github.com/timriley)
- [Philip Arndt](https://github.com/parndt)
- [Ryan Bigg](https://github.com/radar)

## Thank you

Thank you as always for supporting Hanami!

We’re very excited to be nearing 2.1, and we can’t wait to hear from you about this beta! 🌸

Commit message:

Minor tweaks
- Remove backticks that were rendering poorly in excerpt
- Reserve emphasis in the first section for only the new tool
- Use less formal sentence case for all headings
- Introduce new headings: “Assets for slices” and “We need your help!”
- Use proper names and casings for “Node.js” and “npm” (which is all lowercase, just like dry-rb, and even though no one ever respects that, I certainly will!

source/blog/2023-10-04-hanami-210beta2.html.markdown, after:

---
title: Hanami 2.1.0.beta2
date: 2023-10-04 07:24 UTC
tags: announcements
author: Tim Riley
image: true
excerpt: >
  Previewing front end assets for Hanami 2.1 and our new CLI command: hanami dev.
---

**Today we’re excited to release Hanami 2.1.0.beta2 and share a preview of Hanami’s front end assets experience.**

## `hanami dev`

It all starts with a new command: `hanami dev`.

Running `hanami dev` starts the familiar Hanami web server alongside our new **front end assets watcher and compiler**. This is based on [esbuild](https://esbuild.github.io), and uses a [brand new plugin](https://github.com/hanami/assets-js) to make it aware of Hanami’s app structure.

Hanami’s assets support now requires [Node.js](https://nodejs.org) and [npm](https://www.npmjs.com) to work.

## App structure for assets

Your assets live in `app/assets/`. JavaScript files live under `js/` and serve as your main entry points.

Here’s an example `app/assets/app.ts`:

```ts
import "../css/app.css";

console.log("Hello from app.ts");
```

As you can see, [TypeScript](https://www.typescriptlang.org) support comes out of the box. Just run `npm install typescript --save-dev`.

With your initial assets files in place, you can hop over to your view layout to include them:

`app/views/layouts/app.html.erb`

```erb
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="en">
  <head>
    <meta charset="UTF-8">
    <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0">
    <title>Bookshelf</title>
    <%= favicon %>
    <%= css "app" %>
  </head>
  <body>
    <%= yield %>
    <%= js "app" %>
  </body>
</html>
```

And with that, you’re done! Your app is now serving your custom styles and JavaScript behavior.

## View helpers for assets

We provide a [complete range of helpers](https://github.com/hanami/hanami/blob/965aa5aeb25b0a16b9c519866f14b4fa916d290a/lib/hanami/helpers/assets_helper.rb#L1) for working with your assets in various ways, including `js`, `css` (or their fuller equivalents, `javascript` and `stylesheet`) `asset_url`, `image` and more.

## Assets for slices

For users of Hanami slices, we have you covered too: assets can live within each slice, in `slices/[slice_name]/assets` directories that can take the same structure as the app-level assets.

## CLI commands

Along with the `hanami dev` command, you can also use the `hanami assets compile` and `hanami assets watch` commands directly.

## We need your help!

If you’ve been waiting for the full stack Hanami experience, this beta release is a huge step forward.

Since our assets support is brand new, we need your help! We’d love you to give this a try with your favorite front end tools and packages, and [let us know how you go](https://discourse.hanamirb.org).

## What’s included?

Today we’re releasing the following gems:

- hanami v2.1.0.beta2
- hanami-reloader v2.1.0.beta2
- hanami-webconsole v2.1.0.beta2
- hanami-cli v2.1.0.beta2
- hanami-assets v2.1.0.beta2
- hanami-view v2.1.0.beta2
- hanami-controller v2.1.0.beta2
- hanami-assets v2.1.0-beta.2 (npm package)

For specific changes in this beta release, please see each gem’s own CHANGELOG.

## How can I try it?

```shell
> gem install foreman
> gem install hanami --pre
> hanami new my_app
> cd my_app
> bundle exec hanami dev
```

## What’s next for 2.1?

From here, we’ll be working through the small number of “Todo” items remaining on our [Hanami v2.1 project board](https://github.com/orgs/hanami/projects/2/views/1). These are mostly just polish and preparation tasks.

Depending on what we learn from your testing and feedback, this means **the full 2.1 release may only be a matter of weeks away!** We’ll also be focusing on getting our docs ready to go as well, and we’ll begin to release these as soon as they start to come together.

## Contributors

Thank you to these fine people for contributing to this release!

- [Luca Guidi](https://github.com/jodosha)
- [Tim Riley](https://github.com/timriley)
- [Philip Arndt](https://github.com/parndt)
- [Ryan Bigg](https://github.com/radar)

## Thank you

Thank you as always for supporting Hanami!

We’re very excited to be nearing 2.1, and we can’t wait to hear from you about this beta! 🌸
