---
title: Hanami 2.1.0.rc3
date: 2024-02-14 12:00 UTC
tags: announcements
author: Tim Riley
image: true
excerpt: >
  A revised approach to assets, and 2.1.0 coming soon.
---

After our [last release candidate](/blog/2023/11/08/hanami-210rc2/), we discovered a few limitations in our approach to asset compilation. With the end-of-year break approaching, we decided to step back, look at things fresh, and find an approach that would serve as a solid foundation for the future.

With 2.1.0.rc3, we’re happy to release this new approach!

## Independent assets per slice

Now when you run `hanami assets compile` or `hanami assets watch`, we'll fork and run a separate assets compilation process for each slice in your app containing assets.

These assets will then be compiled into separate directories under `public/assets/`, each with their own manifest file: app assets compile into `public/assets/` (containing  a`public/assets/assets.json` manifest), whereas e.g. an "admin" slice’s assets compile into `public/assets/admin/` (containing `public/assets/admin/assets.json`).

Each slice will then have access to its own assets only, either via the view helpers or direct access using the registered `"assets"` component.

With this, we now deliver the same separations for assets that Hanami offers for every other aspect of slices: complete independence.

Slices may now have their own `config/assets.js` file, allowing you to customize asset compilation on a slice-by-slice basis. Of course, if you don’t require this, a single top-level `config/assets.js` will still work for all slices.

You also no longer require an `"scripts": {"assets": "..."}` entry within your `package.json`. Instead, the Hanami CLI will detect `config/assets.js` files wherever they exist and invoke them directly.

If you’d like to learn more about this new approach, see [this detailed post on our forum](https://discourse.hanamirb.org/t/a-new-approach-to-assets-in-2-1-0-rc3/900).

## We need your help!

This is a fairly significant change to assets, and while we’re confident it’s the right move for Hanami, we still need your help to test this with your apps.

Please give this release a try, especially for building views and using your favorite front end tools and packages. Check out our [new guides](https://guides.hanamirb.org/v2.1/introduction/getting-started/) for an introduction, and then [let us know how you go](https://discourse.hanamirb.org).

## What’s next? 2.1.0!

We want this to be our last release candidate. The next step here is 2.1.0.

## What’s included?

Today we’re releasing the following gems:

- hanami v2.1.0.rc3
- hanami-reloader v2.1.0.rc3
- hanami-rspec v2.1.0.rc3
- hanami-webconsole v2.1.0.rc3
- hanami-cli v2.1.0.rc3
- hanami-assets v2.1.0.rc3
- hanami-view v2.1.0.rc3
- hanami-controller v2.1.0.rc3
- hanami-router v2.1.0.rc3
- hanami-validations v2.1.0.rc3
- hanami-utils v2.1.0.rc3
- hanami-assets v2.1.0-rc.3 (npm package)

For specific changes in this release, please see each gem’s own CHANGELOG.


## How can I try it?

```shell
> gem install hanami --pre
> gem install hanami-cli --pre
> hanami new my_app
> cd my_app
> bundle exec hanami dev
```

## Contributors

Thank you to these fine people for contributing to this release!

- [Philip Arndt](https://github.com/parndt)
- [Tim Riley](https://github.com/timriley)

## Thank you

Thank you as always for supporting Hanami! We can’t wait to hear from you about this release candidate! 🌸
