source/guides/upgrade-notes/v060.md, before:

---
title: Lotus - Guides - Upgrade Notes for v0.6.0
---

## Upgrade Notes for v0.6.0

  * Add `SERVE_STATIC_ASSETS="true"` to `.env.development` and `.env.test` in order to serve static assets locally.

  * Add `require 'lotus/rake_tasks’` to `Rakefile` in order to enable `:preload` and `:environment` Rake tasks

  * Rename `default_format` into `default_request_format` for all the applications (eg. `apps/web/application.rb`)

  * Delete all `serve_assets` occurrences from all the applications (eg. `apps/web/application.rb`)

  * Rename `apps/web/public` into `apps/web/assets` as assets sources

  * Add `require 'lotus/assets'` at the top of `apps/web/application.rb`

  * Add `include Web::Assets::Helpers` into `view.prepare` block of `apps/web/application.rb`

  * Change assets configuration into `apps/web/application.rb` from:

    ```ruby
    assets << [
      'vendor/javascripts'
    ]
    ```

    to:

    ```ruby
    assets do
      sources << [
        'vendor/assets'
      ]
    end
    ```

  * Add the following code **inside** the `configure :production` block of `apps/web/application.rb`

    ```ruby
    assets do
      compile false
      digest  true

      # CDN Mode (optional)
      # scheme 'https'
      # host   '123.cloudfront.net'
      # port   443
    end
    ```

**If you have any problem, don't hesitate to look for help in [chat](http://chat.lotusrb.org).**

Commit message:

Reflect latest changes from lotus-assets

source/guides/upgrade-notes/v060.md, after:

---
title: Lotus - Guides - Upgrade Notes for v0.6.0
---

## Upgrade Notes for v0.6.0

  * Add `SERVE_STATIC_ASSETS="true"` to `.env.development` and `.env.test` in order to serve static assets locally.

  * Add `require 'lotus/rake_tasks’` to `Rakefile` in order to enable `:preload` and `:environment` Rake tasks

  * Rename `default_format` into `default_request_format` for all the applications (eg. `apps/web/application.rb`)

  * Delete all `serve_assets` occurrences from all the applications (eg. `apps/web/application.rb`)

  * Create `public/` directory at the root of the project (if not already existing)

  * Add `public/assets*` to `.gitignore`

  * Rename `apps/web/public` into `apps/web/assets` as assets sources

  * Add `require 'lotus/assets'` at the top of `apps/web/application.rb`

  * Add `include Web::Assets::Helpers` into `view.prepare` block of `apps/web/application.rb`

  * Change assets configuration into `apps/web/application.rb` from:

    ```ruby
    assets << [
      # 'vendor/javascripts'
    ]
    ```

    to:

    ```ruby
    assets do
      javascript_compressor :builtin
      stylesheet_compressor :builtin

      sources << [
        'assets',
        # 'vendor/assets'
      ]
    end
    ```

  * Add the following code **inside** the `configure :production` block of `apps/web/application.rb`

    ```ruby
    assets do
      compile false
      digest  true

      # CDN Mode (optional)
      # scheme 'https'
      # host   '123.cloudfront.net'
      # port   443
    end
    ```

**If you have any problem, don't hesitate to look for help in [chat](http://chat.lotusrb.org).**
