source/guides/upgrade-notes/v100.md, before:

---
title: Guides - Upgrade Notes for v1.0.0
---

## Upgrade Notes for v1.0.0

  * Edit `Gemfile`, by changing Hanami version: `gem 'hanami', '~> 1.0'`

  * Edit `Gemfile`, by changing Hanami Model version: `gem 'hanami-model', '~> 1.0'`

  * Edit `Gemfile`, by removing Bundler: `gem 'bundler'` can be deleted

  * Add `config/boot.rb` as shown below

  * Edit `config/environment.rb` as shown below

  * Edit `lib/bookshelf.rb` as shown below

  * Edit all the applications to remove the `logger` settings. Eg. `apps/web/application.rb`

  * Edit the project using `Hanami.logger` instead of application level loggers. Eg. `Web.logger`


### `config/boot.rb`

```ruby
require_relative './environment'
Hanami.boot
```

This file can be used to boot your project from external commands. For instance to use it with Sidekiq.

### `config/environment.rb`

```ruby
require 'bundler/setup'
require 'hanami/setup'
require 'hanami/model'
require_relative '../lib/bookshelf'
require_relative '../apps/web/application'

Hanami.configure do
  mount Web::Application, at: '/'

  model do
    adapter :sql, ENV['DATABASE_URL']

    migrations 'db/migrations'
    schema     'db/schema.sql'
  end

  mailer do
    root Hanami.root.join("lib", "bookshelf", "mailers")

    # This has changed. It used to be a block, now it's a setting
    delivery :test
  end

  # These two blocks are new.
  # They MUST be after the general settings like `mount`, `model`, `mailer`.
  environment :development do
    # See: http://hanamirb.org/guides/projects/logging
    logger level: :info
  end

  environment :production do
    logger level: :info, formatter: :json

    mailer do
      delivery :smtp, address: ENV['SMTP_HOST'], port: ENV['SMTP_PORT']
    end
  end
end
```

### `lib/bookshelf.rb`

```ruby
module Bookshelf
end
```

**If you have any problem, don't hesitate to look for help in [chat](http://chat.hanamirb.org).**

Commit message:

Add hint that mailers folder is now required (#321)

source/guides/upgrade-notes/v100.md, after:

---
title: Guides - Upgrade Notes for v1.0.0
---

## Upgrade Notes for v1.0.0

  * Edit `Gemfile`, by changing Hanami version: `gem 'hanami', '~> 1.0'`

  * Edit `Gemfile`, by changing Hanami Model version: `gem 'hanami-model', '~> 1.0'`

  * Edit `Gemfile`, by removing Bundler: `gem 'bundler'` can be deleted

  * Add `config/boot.rb` as shown below

  * Edit `config/environment.rb` as shown below

  * Edit `lib/bookshelf.rb` as shown below

  * Edit all the applications to remove the `logger` settings. Eg. `apps/web/application.rb`

  * Edit the project using `Hanami.logger` instead of application level loggers. Eg. `Web.logger`


### `config/boot.rb`

```ruby
require_relative './environment'
Hanami.boot
```

This file can be used to boot your project from external commands. For instance to use it with Sidekiq.

### `config/environment.rb`

```ruby
require 'bundler/setup'
require 'hanami/setup'
require 'hanami/model'
require_relative '../lib/bookshelf'
require_relative '../apps/web/application'

Hanami.configure do
  mount Web::Application, at: '/'

  model do
    adapter :sql, ENV['DATABASE_URL']

    migrations 'db/migrations'
    schema     'db/schema.sql'
  end

  mailer do
    # Make sure this folder exists, or delete this row.
    root Hanami.root.join("lib", "bookshelf", "mailers")

    # This has changed. It used to be a block, now it's a setting
    delivery :test
  end

  # These two blocks are new.
  # They MUST be after the general settings like `mount`, `model`, `mailer`.
  environment :development do
    # See: http://hanamirb.org/guides/projects/logging
    logger level: :info
  end

  environment :production do
    logger level: :info, formatter: :json

    mailer do
      delivery :smtp, address: ENV['SMTP_HOST'], port: ENV['SMTP_PORT']
    end
  end
end
```

### `lib/bookshelf.rb`

```ruby
module Bookshelf
end
```

**If you have any problem, don't hesitate to look for help in [chat](http://chat.hanamirb.org).**
