source/guides/1.1/views/basic-usage.md, before:

---
title: Guides - Views Basic Usage
version: 1.1
---

# Basic Usage

In the [previous section](/guides/1.1/views/overview) we generated a view. Let's use it.

## Default Rendering

First, we edit the corresponding template:

```erb
# apps/web/templates/dashboard/index.html.erb
<h1>Dashboard</h1>
```

By visiting `/dashboard`, we should see `<h1>Dashboard</h1>` in our browser.

Again we should look at the naming convention.
Our view is `Web::Views::Dashboard::Index`, while the file name of the template is `web/templates/dashboard/index`.

<p class="convention">
  For a given view <code>Web::Views::Dashboard::Index</code>, the corresponding template MUST be available at <code>apps/web/templates/dashboard/index.html.erb</code>.
</p>

### Context

While rendering a template, variable lookups requested by the template go to a view _context_.

```erb
# apps/web/templates/dashboard/index.html.erb
<h1><%= title %></h1>
```

If we amend our template by adding an interpolated variable, the view is responsible for providing it.

```ruby
# apps/web/views/dashboard/index.rb
module Web::Views::Dashboard
  class Index
    include Web::View

    def title
      'Dashboard'
    end
  end
end
```

The view now responds to `#title` by implementing it as a concrete method.
We still see `<h1>Dashboard</h1>` when we visit `/dashboard`.

### Exposures

There is another source for our context: [_exposures_](/guides/1.1/actions/exposures).
They are a payload that comes from the action.

```ruby
# apps/web/controllers/dashboard/index.rb
module Web::Controllers::Dashboard
  class Index
    include Web::Action
    expose :title

    def call(params)
      @title = 'Dashboard'
    end
  end
end
```

We can remove `#title` from our view, to get the same output when accessing `/dashboard`.

```ruby
# apps/web/views/dashboard/index.rb
module Web::Views::Dashboard
  class Index
    include Web::View
  end
end
```

<p class="notice">
Rendering context for a template is made of view methods and exposures.
</p>

## Custom Rendering

Hanami performs rendering by calling `#render` on a view and it expects a string in return.
The benefit of an object-oriented approach is the ability to easily diverge from default behavior.

We can override that method to define a custom rendering policy.

```ruby
# apps/web/views/dashboard/index.rb
module Web::Views::Dashboard
  class Index
    include Web::View

    def render
      raw %(<h1>Dashboard</h1>)
    end
  end
end
```

Once again our output is still the same, but the template isn't used at all.

<p class="convention">
If a view overrides <code>#render</code> the output MUST be a string that will be the body of the response.
The template isn't used and it can be deleted.
</p>

## Bypass Rendering

If an action assigns the body of the response with `#body=`, the rendering of the view is [bypassed](/guides/1.1/actions/basic-usage).

Commit message:

Accessing values exposed by the controller
I haven't found any info about the fact, that you can access the values from the controller in the view. This is particularly important for views that want to wrap these values or convert them to other representation (e.g. JSON).

source/guides/1.1/views/basic-usage.md, after:

---
title: Guides - Views Basic Usage
version: 1.1
---

# Basic Usage

In the [previous section](/guides/1.1/views/overview) we generated a view. Let's use it.

## Default Rendering

First, we edit the corresponding template:

```erb
# apps/web/templates/dashboard/index.html.erb
<h1>Dashboard</h1>
```

By visiting `/dashboard`, we should see `<h1>Dashboard</h1>` in our browser.

Again we should look at the naming convention.
Our view is `Web::Views::Dashboard::Index`, while the file name of the template is `web/templates/dashboard/index`.

<p class="convention">
  For a given view <code>Web::Views::Dashboard::Index</code>, the corresponding template MUST be available at <code>apps/web/templates/dashboard/index.html.erb</code>.
</p>

### Context

While rendering a template, variable lookups requested by the template go to a view _context_.

```erb
# apps/web/templates/dashboard/index.html.erb
<h1><%= title %></h1>
```

If we amend our template by adding an interpolated variable, the view is responsible for providing it.

```ruby
# apps/web/views/dashboard/index.rb
module Web::Views::Dashboard
  class Index
    include Web::View

    def title
      'Dashboard'
    end
  end
end
```

The view now responds to `#title` by implementing it as a concrete method.
We still see `<h1>Dashboard</h1>` when we visit `/dashboard`.

### Exposures

There is another source for our context: [_exposures_](/guides/1.1/actions/exposures).
They are a payload that comes from the action.

```ruby
# apps/web/controllers/dashboard/index.rb
module Web::Controllers::Dashboard
  class Index
    include Web::Action
    expose :title

    def call(params)
      @title = 'Dashboard'
    end
  end
end
```

We can remove `#title` from our view, to get the same output when accessing `/dashboard`.

```ruby
# apps/web/views/dashboard/index.rb
module Web::Views::Dashboard
  class Index
    include Web::View
  end
end
```

<p class="notice">
Rendering context for a template is made of view methods and exposures.
</p>

The objects exposed in the controller action are available in the corresponding view. So the values 
can also be modified, wrapped or reused in some other way. Assuming that the `title` is exposed
in the action, it can be accessed as follows:

```ruby
# apps/web/views/dashboard/index.rb
module Web::Views::Dashboard
  class Index
    include Web::View
    
    def full_title
      "The title: " + title
     end
  end
end
```



## Custom Rendering

Hanami performs rendering by calling `#render` on a view and it expects a string in return.
The benefit of an object-oriented approach is the ability to easily diverge from default behavior.

We can override that method to define a custom rendering policy.

```ruby
# apps/web/views/dashboard/index.rb
module Web::Views::Dashboard
  class Index
    include Web::View

    def render
      raw %(<h1>Dashboard</h1>)
    end
  end
end
```

Once again our output is still the same, but the template isn't used at all.

<p class="convention">
If a view overrides <code>#render</code> the output MUST be a string that will be the body of the response.
The template isn't used and it can be deleted.
</p>

## Bypass Rendering

If an action assigns the body of the response with `#body=`, the rendering of the view is [bypassed](/guides/1.1/actions/basic-usage).
